One solution is that once the client gets their job access
token from the authentication server,
the same token can be passed around between the services for authorization.
It's called token relay just like in a relay race where the next
runner starts when the baton is passed to them.
This can work and like anything has both pros and cons.
It's very simple to set up and configure.
The token can have state, like the resource owner's claims and roles,
which is useful for stateless services.
But that can be both a positive and a negative.
Because the token needs to be used across services,
we have to pack it with all the claims, scopes,
and roles that satisfy all services in the request chain.
Hence, if it gets leaked in say the pricing service,
the bearer can now use it against any service.
Hence, the expiry needs to be short-lived to minimize that damage,
which is a problem because the lifespan of the job needs to be enough
to satisfy all the hops the service needs to make.
If it expires mid-request, it will fail,
and the client's exception handling will have to deal with that by
either refreshing the token and resubmitting the request.
Additionally, the pricing service doesn't need to know about the user's claims,
which could contain things like their address,
email, and any other identity information required by the other services.
And if the developers of the pricing service decided
to write the token to the logs, then over the course of a day,
it could log a lot of tokens.
And even if the tokens were expired,
it could still be of use to a hacker if it contained claims like their address,
email, and other sensitive information.
Now between the single-page application and its BFF,
it's totally a viable option.
And if you're using OpenID Connect,
you can even pass the ID token to it as really it's a part of the front end.
With OAuth2 and OpenID Connect,
if you're passing around the access token between services,
another option to secure the user's data is to not put any
user's claims on the actual access token,
but require each service that needs the claims to make a call
to the userinfo endpoint to retrieve them.
The benefit of this approach is that services,
like our pricing services,
that don't need to handle any user claims no longer have to handle them
as expired tokens are no longer of any use to a hacker if they are
leaked as there's no sensitive data on them.
So it just provides that little bit of extra added security.
However,
there is a performance hit with the additional hop to the userinfo endpoint.
An alternative to token relay is for the services to get a new
token from the authorization server to connect to the next
microservice in the request chain. Let's look at that option next.